Use only the supplied plant information. Return JSON only.

Write one paragraph: maximum 75 words and three sentences. Start with plant type and explicitly supported native origin, then 1–2 distinctive features worth remembering. Use plain English; avoid jargon, filler, naming history and measurement lists. Keep sparse summaries short; use null if only naming information exists.

Preserve uncertainty and qualifications about location, time, plant parts and varieties. Omit disputed claims. Do not invent causal explanations.

humanEdibility:
- yes: explicit human food use is documented.
- no: explicitly inedible or poisonous when eaten, without a qualified edible use.
- unknown: evidence is absent, unclear or contradictory.

Different parts or preparations are not contradictions. Medicinal or animal use is not human food use. In edibilityNote, retain relevant parts, preparation and historical context in ≤30 words; otherwise null. If food use appears in the paragraph, retain its essential qualifications there too.

Return:
{"summary":"...","humanEdibility":"yes|no|unknown","edibilityNote":null,"evidence":{"summary":["passage IDs"],"humanEdibility":["passage IDs"]}}
Use supporting passage IDs only; empty lists when no claim is made.

PLANT INFORMATION
{"taxonId":155794,"scientificName":"Tordylium apulum","commonName":"Mediterranean Hartwort","rank":"species","sourceMatchStatus":"taxon_matched_text","sources":[{"id":"s1","title":"Tordylium apulum","language":"en","scope":"title_matches_scientific_name","passages":[{"id":"s1:p1","text":"Tordylium apulum, commonly known as the Mediterranean hartwort, is an annual forb or herb. It is classified within the family Apiaceae, the carrot family. It is native to Europe and Western Asia, but has been introduced to the United States, where it is now found only in Arizona. This plant's seeds are suggested as the plant model used for the famous gold \"Malia Pendant\", a jewel of high quality gold-smithery of the Minoan times now on display at the Heraklion Archaeological Museum."},{"id":"s1:p2","text":"Derivation of English Common Name\nThe name Hartwort, meaning ‘Deer plant’ is a scholarly coinage from the belief, first recorded by Aristotle that female deer sought out the leaves of the plant to eat, after giving birth. If true, this observation might indicate medicinal or nutritive properties in the plant preventative of post-partum haemorrhage."},{"id":"s1:p3","text":"Description \nThe Mediterranean hartwort usually grows to 20-50 centimeters in height. It has an erect stem that is branched with soft, spreading hairs at the base, and scattered hairs along the rest of the stem. The leaves are softly hairy and pinnate, with the lower leaves being oval with toothed segments, and the upper leaves having linear segments. It has 2-8 primary rays. The marginal flowers each have 1 white petal, enlarged, and uniformly deeply 2-lobed. The bracts and bracteoles are linear long-pointed with spreading hairs. The fruit is round, flattened, elaborately textured, and usually is 5-8 millimeters in size."},{"id":"s1:p4","text":"Habitat\nMediterranean hartwort is found as a weed of cultivation, on waste land, and by waysides. The plant is equally at home in sandy, loamy and clay soils. Hartworts may be found growing on acid, neutral and basic soils, but will not thrive in shade."},{"id":"s1:p5","text":"Reproduction\nThe flowers are hermaphrodite and are pollinated by Insects. The plant is self-fertile."},{"id":"s1:p6","text":"Uses\nThe leaves of the plant are edible and are used as a potherb and salad vegetable in Greece. In Italy it is used as a condiment. The essential oil composition of aerial parts of Tordylium apulum L. from Italy was analyzed. Sixty-seven compounds were identified representing 96.5% of the oil. The most abundant compounds were (E)-β-ocimene (17.3), α-humulene (11.4%) and octyl octanoate (8.8%). Essential oil from aerial parts of T. apulum from Greece was reported to have α-humulene (28.7%) and octyl hexanoate (11.7%) as the main constituents. There are no known medicinal uses for this plant."},{"id":"s1:p7","text":"In popular culture"},{"id":"s1:p8","text":"During the Medieval and Renaissance periods, Tordylium apulum, or hart-wort, was reputed to be the herb associated with the zodiac sign Pisces, and was used in charms & talismans, according to Appendix Four: Fixed Star Rulerships from Cornelius Agrippa, Three Books of Occult Philosophy, Book I, Ch. 32. Appendix 4."}]},{"id":"s2","title":"Lista Vermelha da Flora Vascular de Portugal Continental — Tordylium apulum","language":"unspecified","scope":"Mainland Portugal; 2020 publication, assessments conducted 2016–2019. Preserve regional and historical scope.","passages":[{"id":"s2:p1","text":"Tordylium apulum é uma planta herbácea, que ocorre de forma muito pontual em Portugal continental. Ocorre geralmente em campos agrícolas cultivados ou incultos, pousios, baldios, bermas de caminhos e sebes. É avaliada na categoria Em Perigo devido à diminuta área de ocupação conhecida (8 km 2), ao reduzido número de localizações (duas a três), ao declínio continuado da área, extensão e qualidade do habitat, o qual permite inferir um declínio continuado do tamanho da população nacional. A principal pressão e ameaça a que esta planta está sujeita é a intensificação e expansão agrícola, sobretudo a conversão dos olivais tradicionais de sequeiro em culturas de regadio. Como medidas de conservação, propõem-se a recolha e conservação ex situ do património genético e a realização de um plano de conservação abrangente, direcionado para a diversidade florística que compõe as comunidades arvenses que ocorrem nos olivais tradicionais de sequeiro. Sugere-se a realização de estudos que visem colmatar algumas lacunas de informação sobre a planta, designadamente sobre a sua distribuição e dinâmica populacional. Deverá ser realizada prospeção dirigida à espécie em áreas de habitat favoráveis à sua ocorrência e em certos locais de ocorrência histórica, bem como a monitorização da população nacional desta planta."}]}]}