Use only the supplied plant information. Return JSON only.

Write one paragraph: maximum 75 words and three sentences. Start with plant type and explicitly supported native origin, then 1–2 distinctive features worth remembering. Use plain English; avoid jargon, filler, naming history and measurement lists. Keep sparse summaries short; use null if only naming information exists.

Preserve uncertainty and qualifications about location, time, plant parts and varieties. Omit disputed claims. Do not invent causal explanations.

humanEdibility:
- yes: explicit human food use is documented.
- no: explicitly inedible or poisonous when eaten, without a qualified edible use.
- unknown: evidence is absent, unclear or contradictory.

Different parts or preparations are not contradictions. Medicinal or animal use is not human food use. In edibilityNote, retain relevant parts, preparation and historical context in ≤30 words; otherwise null. If food use appears in the paragraph, retain its essential qualifications there too.

Return:
{"summary":"...","humanEdibility":"yes|no|unknown","edibilityNote":null,"evidence":{"summary":["passage IDs"],"humanEdibility":["passage IDs"]}}
Use supporting passage IDs only; empty lists when no claim is made.

PLANT INFORMATION
{"taxonId":158721,"scientificName":"Artemisia scoparia","commonName":"Oriental wormwood","rank":"species","sourceMatchStatus":"taxon_matched_text","sources":[{"id":"s1","title":"Artemisia scoparia","language":"en","scope":"title_matches_scientific_name","passages":[{"id":"s1:p1","text":"Artemisia scoparia (Waldst. & Kit., 1802), commonly known as virgate wormwood, capillary wormwood, or redstem wormwood, is a perennial aromatic herb in the genus Artemisia, in the sunflower family. It is widespread across much of Eurasia from France to Japan, including China, India, Russia, Germany, Poland, and central and southwest Asia. In Mandarin Chinese it is known as yīn chén ({{lang|zh|茵陳}}; also romanised Yin Chen) or zhū máo hāo ({{lang|zh|猪毛蒿}}). The dried herb — Artemisiae Scopariae Herba (ASH) — is an officially recognised drug in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia and is considered interchangeable with the closely related Artemisia capillaris Thunb. for medicinal purposes. Its pollen can be allergenic in sensitised individuals."},{"id":"s1:p2","text":" Botanical description "},{"id":"s1:p3","text":"According to the Flora of China, A. scoparia is a perennial and aromatic herb 45–100 cm high, though it can sometimes reach 130 cm. The stem is often basally lignified with a purple tinge and heavily branched from the lower portion. Young stem branches and leaves are sea-green, covered with white or greyish silky hairs (sericeous); at maturity they become yellowish and glabrous. The basal leaf petiole is 2–3 cm long; the leaf blade is elliptic to ovate-oblong, 1.5–5 cm long, and 2–3-pinnatisect with segments in 3–4 pairs. The plant is strongly aromatic, particularly in the young spring growth that is traditionally harvested for medicinal use before the stem elongates."},{"id":"s1:p4","text":" Ecology "},{"id":"s1:p5","text":" Habitat "},{"id":"s1:p6","text":"A. scoparia grows in a wide variety of disturbed and open habitats. In Japan it is associated with waste ground; across China it colonises slopes, forest margins, roadsides, steppe, terraces, desert margins, and dry river beds, from low elevations up to 3,200 metres. It is drought-tolerant once established and grows best in well-drained, poor, dry soils in a warm, sunny position. Like many Artemisia species it tends to be longer-lived and more aromatic when grown in impoverished conditions. It is rarely browsed by deer."},{"id":"s1:p7","text":" Insect herbivores "},{"id":"s1:p8","text":"A. scoparia produces a rich array of defensive secondary metabolites — including sesquiterpene lactones and aromatic essential oils — that are toxic to many herbivorous insects. Despite this, it is a recorded larval host plant for certain species. The noctuid moth Schinia scutosa (the spotted clover moth, family Noctuidae), which ranges from Europe across Siberia to Japan and the Near East, uses several Artemisia species as larval foodplants, including A. scoparia, A. vulgaris, A. campestris, A. abrotanum, and A. dracunculus. More broadly, the genus Artemisia supports a notable community of specialist Lepidoptera, including multiple species of Cucullia (shark moths), Coleophora (case-bearer moths), and Eucosma (tortrix moths) whose larvae feed on various wormwood species. Specific records for A. scoparia as a host are limited compared with the more widely studied A. absinthium and A. vulgaris."},{"id":"s1:p9","text":" Edible uses "},{"id":"s1:p10","text":"Young leaves of A. scoparia are recorded as edible when cooked, though this use is minor and not widely documented."},{"id":"s1:p11","text":" Cultivation "},{"id":"s1:p12","text":"A. scoparia is not in general commercial cultivation as a garden plant in the United Kingdom or Western Europe, and is not currently listed by the Royal Horticultural Society. It is described in horticultural references as easily grown in well-drained, circumneutral or slightly alkaline loamy soil in a warm, sunny, dry position. Plants are longer-lived, hardier, and more aromatic in poor dry soils. It can be propagated from seed surface-sown in a greenhouse in spring, pricked out when large enough to handle, and planted out in early summer; alternatively it can be sown in situ in late spring. Across its native range it is principally harvested from wild populations for local medicinal use, essential oil extraction, and food use, rather than formally cultivated."},{"id":"s1:p13","text":" Phytochemistry "},{"id":"s1:p14","text":"More than 70 chemical components and plant secondary metabolites have been isolated and identified from A. scoparia. The principal bioactive compounds include:"},{"id":"s1:p15","text":" Scoparone (6,7-dimethoxycoumarin; also known as 6,7-dimethylesculetin) — the major pharmacologically active coumarin constituent\n Capillarisin — a chromone with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties\n Chlorogenic acid and its butyl ester — polyphenolic acids with antioxidant activity\n Scopoletin and 7-methylesculetin — coumarin derivatives\n 7-Methoxycoumarin (herniarin)\n β-Sitosterol — a phytosterol\n Capillin — a polyacetylenic compound\n Isosabandin, Sabandin A and Sabandin B — furanocoumarins\n Magnolioside (isoscopoletin-β-D-glucopyranoside)\n Flavonoids including isorhamnetin and quercetin derivatives"},{"id":"s1:p16","text":"The relative abundance of these constituents varies significantly with the harvest season. The bioactive compound profiles shift considerably across growing stages, which is consistent with the traditional preference for young spring plant material."},{"id":"s1:p17","text":" Essential oil "},{"id":"s1:p18","text":"The seeds and flowering stems of A. scoparia yield approximately 0.75% essential oil on distillation. Studies of oils from plants collected at different altitudes and across different regions have found that the major constituents include capillene (9.6–31.8%), methyleugenol (0.2–26.6%), β-myrcene (1.9–21.4%), γ-terpinene (1.5–19.4%), trans-β-caryophyllene (0.8–12.4%), β-Pinene (8–19%), capillin, limonene, and eugenol. The precise profile varies significantly with altitude and harvest conditions."},{"id":"s1:p19","text":"The essential oil has been demonstrated in laboratory studies to have significant repellent and fumigant activity against stored-product insect pests. Studies have shown repellent and toxic effects against the pulse beetle Callosobruchus maculatus, the rice weevil Sitophilus oryzae, and the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum. One study found that a concentration of 37 μL per litre of air with an exposure time of 24 hours was sufficient to achieve 100% kill of the tested insects. The oil has also shown repellent activity against the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti: oil from one tested population exhibited 100% repellency for 15 minutes at a concentration of 33.3 μg/cm², a result comparable to DEET at the same concentration. This insect-repellent activity is consistent with the broader pattern seen across the genus Artemisia, whose aromatic essential oils have long been used as natural insecticides and repellents — a use reflected in the European folk tradition of laying wormwood amongst stored clothing and grain to repel moths and other insects."},{"id":"s1:p20","text":" Traditional medicinal uses "},{"id":"s1:p21","text":"A. scoparia has been used as a medicinal plant in China since at least the Eastern Han dynasty (25–220 AD), where it is documented in the Shennong Bencao Jing ({{lang|zh|神農本草經}}), the earliest Chinese pharmacopoeia. Under the name Yinchen, it has been employed for liver-protective, bile-stimulating (cholagogue), and diuretic purposes for nearly two millennia. The plant is well known as an ingredient of diuretic and detoxifying medicines."},{"id":"s1:p22","text":"Traditional indications have included jaundice (described in traditional Chinese medicine as dampness–heat patterns in the liver and gallbladder), hepatitis and other disorders of the liver and gallbladder including cholecystitis, dyspepsia, gastritis, fever, pain, pruritus, sores, expulsion of intestinal parasites, and respiratory conditions including asthma. It has an antibacterial action, inhibiting the growth of Staphylococcus aureus, streptococci, Bacillus dysenteriae, B. typhi, B. subtilis, pneumococci, C. diphtheriae, and mycobacteria."},{"id":"s1:p23","text":"A classical TCM prescription for jaundice combined A. scoparia with Gardenia jasminoides J. Ellis and rhubarb (Rheum rhabarbarum L.), a formulation known as Yin-Chen-Hao decoction ({{lang|zh|茵陳蒿湯}}, YCHD), which continues to be studied pharmacologically. Beyond China, the plant has been used in the folk medicine traditions of Central Asia, Korea, Japan, India, and Pakistan."},{"id":"s1:p24","text":" Pharmacology "},{"id":"s1:p25","text":"Modern pharmacological research has demonstrated that A. scoparia possesses a broad spectrum of bioactivities. The most extensively studied are its effects on the liver and gallbladder, its anti-inflammatory activity, and its effects on metabolic disease. The preponderance of evidence to date derives from in vitro cell culture experiments and animal models; human clinical trial data remain limited."},{"id":"s1:p26","text":" Effects on the liver and gallbladder "},{"id":"s1:p27","text":"The liver-protective properties of A. scoparia are among its best-characterised activities and provide scientific support for its long traditional use in liver and biliary disease. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that plant extracts protect against liver damage induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl₄) and acetaminophen in animal models."},{"id":"s1:p28","text":"Artemisiae Scopariae Herba (ASH) is described as the most commonly used traditional Chinese medicine herbal preparation for chronic liver diseases, especially cholestatic liver diseases. Clinical evidence summarised in peer-reviewed literature has indicated that ASH-based TCM prescriptions may offer therapeutic benefit in cholestasis."},{"id":"s1:p29","text":"The principal liver-protective mechanisms involve several bioactive constituents working in different ways:"},{"id":"s1:p30","text":" Scoparone (6,7-dimethoxycoumarin) exerts anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, antioxidant, and anti-apoptotic effects. It has shown activity in animal models of acute liver injury, alcohol-induced liver damage, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and hepatic fibrosis. Key mechanisms include inhibition of the NF-κB inflammatory signalling pathway and modulation of bile acid transporters. Scoparone is the principal active component of the classical TCM formulations Yin-Chen-Hao decoction (YCHD) and Yinzhihuang decoction (YZHD).\n Capillarisin contributes antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity.\n Chlorogenic acid and its isomers confer further antioxidant and anti-inflammatory protection.\n β-Sitosterol isolated from the plant has been studied in liver fibrosis models."},{"id":"s1:p31","text":"A 2026 study published in Frontiers in Pharmacology reported that A. scoparia extract inhibits oxidative stress and ferroptosis in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH, formerly NASH) through AGE-RAGE and JAK1-STAT3 signalling pathways."},{"id":"s1:p32","text":" Anti-inflammatory activity "},{"id":"s1:p33","text":"Comprehensive anti-inflammatory activity has been documented across multiple cell types and experimental settings. A study published in the journal Obesity (Boudreau et al., 2020) demonstrated that an ethanolic extract of A. scoparia inhibits inflammatory responses in cultured adipocytes, macrophages, and pancreatic β-cells through two distinct signalling pathways — the ERK kinase pathway and the NF-κB pathway. Scoparone has also been shown to inhibit the production of inflammatory mediators through suppression of NF-κB activation, and its immune-regulatory effects have been reviewed in the context of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases."},{"id":"s1:p34","text":" Metabolic effects "},{"id":"s1:p35","text":"An emerging body of peer-reviewed research has demonstrated potential for A. scoparia extracts in metabolic disease, particularly obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes, published principally in PLOS ONE, Obesity, Nutrition, and Frontiers in Endocrinology. A 2022 review in Frontiers in Endocrinology provides a comprehensive synthesis of these findings, concluding that the plant represents \"untapped potential of an ancient remedy for modern use\" in metabolic health, while noting that human clinical trials remain necessary to establish efficacy."},{"id":"s1:p36","text":" Antimicrobial activity "},{"id":"s1:p37","text":"Essential oils of A. scoparia have demonstrated antimicrobial activity against bacterial and fungal pathogens in vitro. Scoparone additionally exhibits antibacterial, antifungal, antiparasitic, and antiviral activity in laboratory studies."},{"id":"s1:p38","text":" Safety and toxicology "},{"id":"s1:p39","text":"The pollen of A. scoparia is allergenic and has been identified as a cause of allergic rhinitis in sensitised individuals in regions where the plant is prevalent. Pollen allergens have been isolated and characterised. Although we have seen no specific reports for this species, many members of this genus contain potentially allergenic sesquiterpene lactones that can cause skin reactions."},{"id":"s1:p40","text":"Comprehensive long-term in vivo toxicity data and formal clinical safety evaluations of A. scoparia extracts in humans are lacking. Reviewers have noted that comprehensive evaluation of long-term toxicity and clinical efficacy \"require further in-depth research\" before definitive conclusions can be drawn regarding therapeutic use in human disease."}]}]}