Use only the supplied plant information. Return JSON only.

Write one paragraph: maximum 75 words and three sentences. Start with plant type and explicitly supported native origin, then 1–2 distinctive features worth remembering. Use plain English; avoid jargon, filler, naming history and measurement lists. Keep sparse summaries short; use null if only naming information exists.

Preserve uncertainty and qualifications about location, time, plant parts and varieties. Omit disputed claims. Do not invent causal explanations.

humanEdibility:
- yes: explicit human food use is documented.
- no: explicitly inedible or poisonous when eaten, without a qualified edible use.
- unknown: evidence is absent, unclear or contradictory.

Different parts or preparations are not contradictions. Medicinal or animal use is not human food use. In edibilityNote, retain relevant parts, preparation and historical context in ≤30 words; otherwise null. If food use appears in the paragraph, retain its essential qualifications there too.

Return:
{"summary":"...","humanEdibility":"yes|no|unknown","edibilityNote":null,"evidence":{"summary":["passage IDs"],"humanEdibility":["passage IDs"]}}
Use supporting passage IDs only; empty lists when no claim is made.

PLANT INFORMATION
{"taxonId":76538,"scientificName":"Cucumis melo","commonName":"Muskmelon","rank":"species","sourceMatchStatus":"taxon_matched_text","sources":[{"id":"s1","title":"Cucumis melo","language":"en","scope":"title_matches_scientific_name","passages":[{"id":"s1:p1","text":"Cucumis melo, also known as melon or true melon, is a species of Cucumis that has been developed into many cultivated varieties. The fruit is a pepo. The flesh is either sweet or bland, with or without an aroma, and the rind can be smooth (such as honeydew), ribbed (such as European cantaloupe), wrinkled (such as Casaba melon), or netted (such as American cantaloupe). The species is sometimes referred to as muskmelon. However, there is no consensus about the usage of this term, as it can also be used as a specific name for the musky netted-rind American cantaloupe, or as a generic name for any sweet-flesh variety such the inodorous smooth-rind honeydew melon."},{"id":"s1:p2","text":"Melon were domesticated four times independently. Research has revealed that seeds and rootstocks were among the goods traded along the caravan routes of the Ancient World. Some botanists consider melons native to the Levant and Egypt, while others place their origin in Iran, India or Central Asia. Still others support an African origin; in modern times, wild melons can still be found in some African countries."},{"id":"s1:p3","text":"Cultivation\nThe melon is an annual, trailing herb. It grows well in subtropical or warm, temperate climates. It can be found as a weed around sites of recently built airports in American Samoa."},{"id":"s1:p4","text":"Melons prefer warm, well-fertilized soil with good drainage that is rich in nutrients, but are vulnerable to downy mildew and anthracnose. Disease risk is reduced by crop rotation with non-cucurbit crops, avoiding crops susceptible to similar diseases as melons. Cross pollination has resulted in some varieties developing resistance to powdery mildew. "},{"id":"s1:p5","text":"Arthropod pest species attracted to melons include the cucumber beetle, Aphis gossypii, melonworm moth and the pickleworm."},{"id":"s1:p6","text":"Genetics"},{"id":"s1:p7","text":"Melons are monoecious or andromonoecious plants. They do not cross with watermelon, cucumber, pumpkin, or squash, but varieties within the species intercross frequently.\nThe genome of Cucumis melo was first sequenced in 2012. Some authors treat C. melo as having two subspecies, C. melo agrestis and C. melo melo. Variants within these subspecies fall into groups whose genetics largely agree with their phenotypic traits, such as disease resistance, rind texture, flesh color, and fruit shape. Variants or landraces (some of which were originally classified as species; see the synonyms list to the right) include C. melo var. acidulus (Mangalore melon), adana, agrestis (wild melon), ameri (summer melon), cantalupensis (cantaloupe), reticulatus (muskmelon), chandalak, chate, chito, conomon (Oriental pickling melon), dudaim (pocket melon), flexuosus (snake melon), inodorus (winter melon), momordica (snap melon), tibish, chinensis and makuwa (Oriental melon)."},{"id":"s1:p8","text":"Not all varieties are sweet melons. The snake melon, also called the Armenian cucumber and Serpent cucumber, is a non-sweet melon found throughout Asia from Turkey to Japan. It is similar to a cucumber in taste and appearance. Outside Asia, snake melons are grown in the United States, Italy, Sudan and parts of North Africa, including Egypt. The snake melon is more popular in Arab countries."},{"id":"s1:p9","text":"Other varieties grown in Africa are bitter, cultivated for their edible seeds. "},{"id":"s1:p10","text":"For commercially grown varieties certain features like protective hard netting and firm flesh are preferred for purposes of shipping and other requirements of commercial markets."},{"id":"s1:p11","text":"Nutrition\nFor a reference amount of {{cvt|100|g}}, a raw cantaloupe melon provides 34 calories and is a rich source (defined as at least 20% of Daily Value, DV) of both vitamin A and vitamin C; other micronutrients are at a negligible level. A raw melon is 90% water and 9% carbohydrates, with less than 1% each of protein and fat."},{"id":"s1:p12","text":"Uses\nIn addition to their consumption when fresh, melons are sometimes dried. Other varieties are cooked, or grown for their seeds, which are processed to produce melon oil. Still other varieties are grown only for their pleasant fragrance. The Japanese liqueur Midori is flavored with melon."},{"id":"s1:p13","text":"It was once a frequently cultivated plant in Tonga (katiu) as a snack and its flowers used for leis, but has since been extirpated."},{"id":"s1:p14","text":" History \nMelon were domesticated independently in Northeast Africa, twice in India and in China. Over time many cultivars developed with variety in shape and sweetness. Iran, India, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan and China became centers for melon production. Melons were consumed in Ancient Greece and Rome."},{"id":"s1:p15","text":"Debate exists among scholars whether the abattiach in The Book of Numbers 11:5 refers to a melon or a watermelon. Both types of melon were known in Ancient Egypt and other settled areas. Some botanists consider melons native to the Levant and Egypt, while others place the origin in Persia, India or Central Asia, thus the origin is uncertain. Researchers have shown that seeds and rootstocks were among the goods traded along the caravan routes of the Ancient World. Several scientists support an African origin, and in modern times wild melons can still be found in several African countries in East Africa like Ethiopia, Somalia and Tanzania."}]}]}