Use only the supplied plant information. Return JSON only.

Write one paragraph: maximum 75 words and three sentences. Start with plant type and explicitly supported native origin, then 1–2 distinctive features worth remembering. Use plain English; avoid jargon, filler, naming history and measurement lists. Keep sparse summaries short; use null if only naming information exists.

Preserve uncertainty and qualifications about location, time, plant parts and varieties. Omit disputed claims. Do not invent causal explanations.

humanEdibility:
- yes: explicit human food use is documented.
- no: explicitly inedible or poisonous when eaten, without a qualified edible use.
- unknown: evidence is absent, unclear or contradictory.

Different parts or preparations are not contradictions. Medicinal or animal use is not human food use. In edibilityNote, retain relevant parts, preparation and historical context in ≤30 words; otherwise null. If food use appears in the paragraph, retain its essential qualifications there too.

Return:
{"summary":"...","humanEdibility":"yes|no|unknown","edibilityNote":null,"evidence":{"summary":["passage IDs"],"humanEdibility":["passage IDs"]}}
Use supporting passage IDs only; empty lists when no claim is made.

PLANT INFORMATION
{"taxonId":78161,"scientificName":"Najas gracillima","commonName":"thread-leaved water-nymph","rank":"species","sourceMatchStatus":"taxon_matched_text","sources":[{"id":"s1","title":"Najas gracillima","language":"en","scope":"title_matches_scientific_name","passages":[{"id":"s1:p1","text":"Najas gracillima, the slender waternymph, is a submerged species of aquatic plant in the Hydrocharitaceae family. found in lakes and streams. It is native to China (Fujian, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei, Hubei, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Taiwan, Yunnan, Zhejiang), Russian Far East (Amur and Khabarovsk), Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Iran, Alberta, Ontario, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, the eastern United States (every state east of the Mississippi River except Florida, plus Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri and the District of Columbia). It is also considered introduced and naturalized in France, Spain, Italy and California (Plumas and Tehama Counties)."},{"id":"s1:p2","text":"Najas gracillima is a small aquatic annual with branching stems. The unisexual flowers ( each flower is only one sex) are produced in the axils of the branchlets and bases of the leaf sheaths. It is listed as endangered in Minnesota. It lives in soft-water lakes and ponds with mud and silt bottoms, and appears to be sensitive to water turbidity, warming, and eutrophication."}]}]}