VicFlora: Multi-access key to the Eucalypts of Victoria—character descriptions (https://vicflora.rbg.vic.gov.au/pages/eucalypts)
citeturn636view0 [wordlim: 200] Crawled: 6 days ago; Content type: text/html; Source: open({"ref_id":"https://vicflora.rbg.vic.gov.au/pages/eucalypts","lineno":null}); Total lines: 733
L0: # Multi-access key to the Eucalypts of Victoria
L1: ## Introduction
L2: The multi-access key to the Eucalypts of Victoria is a key to one of Victoria's most conspicuous and widespread plant groups and contains all 163 Eucalypt taxa (genera Eucalyptus, Corymbia and Angophora) that are known to occur in Victoria, both native and naturalised. It is based on the previously published EUCLID key to all Australian eucalypts produced by the Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Canberra.
L3: It contains 81 characters to help distinguish taxa from each other with, including place and environment of occurrence, stature and growth form, and several morphological features both vegetative and reproductive. It differs from other (dichotomous) keys provided in VicFlora by giving the user the flexibility to choose from one of the 81 characters provided rather than the user having to commit to investigate the particular features being questioned in the dichotomous keys. This has the benefit of:
L4:   1. avoiding having to answer questions relating to a feature that may not be present in the sample when being identified,
L5: 
L6:   2. potentially being able to identify a taxon without needing to comprehend the most technical terminology and
L7: 
L8:   3. allowing the rapid identification of taxa with distinct features rarely encountered among the eucalypts of Victoria
L9: To use the key the user selects a feature from the features in the top left Features Available panel and clicks on the state present in their specimen to be identified. Once selected this feature and state will show as being selected in the Features Chosen panel directly below the Features Available panel. To undo a selection, click on the box next to the state chosen in the Features Chosen panel to erase the tick in the box.
L10: Once a feature state is chosen all the taxa that do not possess the chosen feature state are discarded in the bottom right Entities Discarded panel and those that do possess the chosen feature state are retained in the top right Entities Remaining panel. The user continues to choose further character states present in their specimen until identification is achieved. To restart the key when finished select the restart key icon represented by the two green arrows in the top left corner of the screen.
L11: cite0†Go to Key Player L12: ## General helpful hints
L13: For the most effective use of this key the user is encouraged to read the help guides for each character and state before submitting an answer for that character and state. Help guides and photographs can be found for most characters and states by clicking on the page icons beside characters and states. This help will reduce the chance of misinterpretation of the character and state.
L14: Some Information and definitions required for interpreting a state may be given under character so users are encouraged to read the help guide for the characters before the states. When taking measurements or assessing which state a character exists in for the taxon being identified a typical plant and plant part should be used.
L15: Typical is here interpreted as a close representation of the average plant in terms of size and stature in a population and a plant part that represents the average condition for that character (e.g. average length, the most frequently observed shape etc.). Most characters provided concern the adult plant and consequently when using these characters the plant chosen should be reproductively mature. The exception is for characters that explicitly state that they refer to seedling or juvenile plants.
L16: For some of the characters it is possible for some taxa to possess more than one character state for the character. In such cases either correct character state can be chosen. When taking measurements be precise e.g. if a fruit is 4.9 mm long enter 4.9 mm long rather than rounding up to 5 mm and entering that.
L17: To help identify the specimen to be identified as quickly as possible the best option can be used. This option highlights which characters should be used first to discard the maximum number of taxa among the remaining taxa. To use the best option select the best icon given as a blue wand at the top of the screen. For some similar taxa such as closely related species or subspecies within a species it may become time consuming to keep using the key until one taxon remains.
L18: In such instances the user can use the dichotomous key and profiles to help distinguish between the remaining similar species.
L19: ## Occurrence
L20: 
L21: This set of four characters refer to where a eucalypt naturally occurs or has become naturalised in.
L22: ### Distribution by Natural Region
L23: Victoria has been divided into 16 natural regions (however, Murray Mallee and Lowan Mallee are combined in this key). For this character the user determines which natural region the eucalypt that is to be identified was found in to enter for this character. Whether a taxon is regarded as occurring in a particular natural region or not is dependent on whether the taxon has been previously documented as occurring in that natural region or not.
L24: There is a remote possible that a taxon occurs in a natural region but has not yet been documented in that natural region. In such a case the key will not recognise that taxon as occurring in that natural region which will result in a misidentification for the user. This issue may be particularly relevant to newly introduced species which may be still expanding their range through Victoria or for taxa that are undercollected in herbaria.
L25: Due to these issues we suggest that this character be one of the first characters investigated as a potential reason for misidentification.
L26: ### Landform
L27: 
L28: This character divides Victoria into five broad landform states.
L29: 
L30:   * Coastal plains, coastal low hills and headlands or coastal dunes: Eucalypts from coastal sites will match this state.
L31: 
L32:   * Inland plains, inland low hills or inland dunes (includes deserts): Eucalypts from the low relief north of the Great Dividing Range will match this state.
L33:   * Tablelands: Regions away from the coast near mountains or hills but of undulating or reasonably flat terrain (e.g. elevated areas in Central Victoria) and clearly not a hill or a valley match this state.
L34: 
L35:   * Hills or ridges or mountain tops: This state matches the higher elevated regions of Victoria (e.g. the Alps) as well as high points with reasonable elevation (i.e. rising over 100 metres above the surrounding area).
L36:   * Valley bottoms or flats: This site matches low areas between hills or ridges created by a watercourse.
L37: ### Water habitats
L38: 
L39: This character includes four well-known examples of habitats closely associated with water that eucalypts occupy. Some eucalypts e.g. mallee species, may not typically occur in a habitat closely associated with water. In these cases none of the possible states will match the eucalypt being identified and consequently none of the states should be selected for such a eucalypt.
L40: 
L41:   * On riverbanks or terraces
L42: 
L43:   * Associated with fresh-water swamps, lakes, depressions
L44:   * Associated with salt-water swamps, lakes, depressions (wet or dry)
L45: 
L46:   * On floodplains
L47: ### Soil type
L48: 
L49: This character divides Victoria into three broad soil states.
L50: 
L51:   * Sand (desert or coastal dune, or sandplain or river sands): This state refers to well drained soils that do not easily form aggregates when wetted and are not mouldable.
L52:   * Loam, clay or gravel (sandy loam, sandy clay or rocky or gravelly): This state refers to soils composed mostly of fine particles that at least when wetted can form a mouldable aggregate or soils that have rocks or stones beneath and usually on the soil surface.
L53: 
L54:   * Black cracking clay: This state refers to black clay soils that at some time of the year shrinks when it dries to form deep cracks that are at least 5 mm wide.
L55: ## Plant
L56: 
L57: This set of two characters refers to the general stature of the plant.
L58: 
L59: ### Height: m
L60: 
L61: This character requires the user to measure in metres the height of the tree from the soil at the base of the trunk to the top of the highest leaves.
L62: ### Habit
L63: 
L64: This is the general growth form of the plant and includes two states.
L65: 
L66:   * Tree: This state refers to plants that have a single stem (trunk).
L67: 
L68:   * Mallee or shrub: This state refers to plants that have more than one stem at ground level and are generally less than 10 metres tall.
L69: 
L70: ## Bark
L71: 
L72: This set of seven characters refer to the texture, form or colour of the outer layers of the stem or trunk.
L73: ### Bark persistence or type (on trunk or stem)
L74: 
L75: This character refers to the extent that old and dead bark is persistent on the trunk or stem of a plant and includes three states.
L76: 
L77:   * Wholly smooth: In this state old and dead back is completely shed from the trunk and stems annually exposing a smooth fresh bark. Smooth bark can be felt without getting splinters.
L78:   * Partly rough (incl. partly-decorticated curls over whole trunk): In this state at least some of the old and dead bark is shed annually so that the lower parts of the trunk remains with old rough bark and the rest of the trunk or stem has the smooth fresh bark showing. Stroking rough bark is likely to result in getting splinters.
L79:   * Wholly rough: In this state all the old and dead bark is retained on the trunk and stems resulting in a rough trunk or stem. Stroking rough bark is likely to result in getting splinters.
L80: ### Smooth bark colour (trunk or larger branches)
L81: 
L82: This character refers to the colour that newly exposed smooth bark appears as and includes nine states. This character is not applicable to eucalypts with wholly rough bark (see bark persistence character).
L83: 
L84:   * White
L85: 
L86:   * Cream
L87: 
L88:   * Yellow
L89: 
L90:   * Pink (or reddish)
L91: 
L92:   * Orange
L93: 
L94:   * Coppery
L95: 
L96:   * Brown
L97: 
L98:   * Green (olive green, bronze)
L99: 
L100:   * Grey
L101: ### Scribbles (on smooth bark)
L102: 
L103: This character refers to the presence of darker scribbles on the lighter smooth bark caused by insect larvae and includes two states.
L104: 
L105:   * Scribbles present: In this state scribbles caused by insect larvae are present on the smooth bark.
L106: 
L107:   * Scribbles absent: In this state scribbles caused by insect larvae are absent on the smooth bark.
L108: ### Ribbons (of bark in the upper branches)
L109: 
L110: This character refers to whether old and dead bark in the upper branches is shed in the form of thin ribbons and includes two states.
L111: 
L112:   * Ribbons present: In this state the old and dead bark in the upper branches is shed in the form of thin ribbons.
L113: 
L114:   * Ribbons absent: In this state the old and dead bark in the upper branches is not shed in the form of thin ribbons.
L115: ### Rough bark type
L116: 
L117: This character refers to the texture and form of the old and dead bark that remains persistent for years on the trunks of plants. This bark feels rough rather than feeling more or less smooth like in bark that is annually refreshed in the smooth barked taxa. This character includes seven states. This character is not applicable to eucalypts with wholly smooth bark (see bark persistence character).
L118:   * Ironbark: This form of rough bark is hard, deeply and widely furrowed and tends to be dark in colour, often black or dark brown or grey. There are only three taxa that possess this distinctive rough bark type in Victoria: Eucalyptus sideroxylon subsp. sideroxylon, E. tricarpa subsp. decora and E. tricarpa subsp. tricarpa.
L119: 
L120:   * Tessellated (includes bloodwoods and some boxes): This form of rough bark is composed of short fibres which breaks up into plates.
L121:   * Stringy or fibrous: This form of rough bark is long-fibred and can be removed from the trunk in strings or strips. These strips can be spongy. On the trunk the bark has longitudinal lines and furrows.
L122: 
L123:   * Box (incl. crumbly, thick and flaky): This form of rough bark, common among the box eucalypts, is composed of short fibres that cannot be removed from the trunk in long strips. On the trunk it has narrow longitudinal fissures and appears thin.
L124:   * Imperfectly shed ribbons, strips or curls: This form of rough bark is composed of ribbons, strips or curls that are not completely shed from the trunk but instead remain partly attached often with the shed portion curling away from the trunk.
L125: 
L126:   * Compacted: This form of rough bark is hard and dense making it hard to remove form the trunk.
L127: 
L128:   * Loose basal slabs: This form of rough bark is shed from the base of a trunk in irregular sized and shaped blocks.
L129: ### Rough bark colour
L130: 
L131: This character refers to the colour of the old and dead bark that is retained for years on the trunks of some taxa and includes 8 states.
L132: 
L133:   * Grey
L134: 
L135:   * Brown
L136: 
L137:   * Reddish or pinkish
L138: 
L139:   * Black
L140: 
L141:   * Yellow
L142: 
L143:   * Mottled with grey and white patches
L144: 
L145:   * Orange
L146: 
L147:   * White
L148: 
L149: ## Branches
L150: 
L151: This set of two characters refer to the smaller stems among the canopy.
L152: ### Branch bark (on canopy branches more than ca. 8 cm diam.)
L153: 
L154: This character refers to the persistence of old and dead bark on canopy branches that ae more than 8 centimetres in diameter and includes two states.
L155: 
L156:   * Smooth: In this state old and dead bark is shed annually from the branches of the canopy that are more than 8 centimetres in diameter exposing a smoother and often lighter bark.
L157:   * Rough: In this state old and dead bark is retained in the branches of the canopy that are more than 8 centimetres in diameter making these branches rough to touch. Stroking rough bark is likely to result in getting splinters.
L158: ### Branchlet glaucescence (on second or third year growth)
L159: 
L160: This character refers to the presence of a white powder on the second and third year growth and includes two states.
L161: 
L162:   * Branchlet white with wax (glaucous): In this state the second and third year growth is covered by a wax giving this growth a white appearance.
L163: 
L164:   * Branchlet without wax (not glaucous): In this state the second and third year growth is not covered by a wax and are not white.
L165: ### Pith oil glands in branchlets
L166: 
L167: This character refers to the presence of glands in the centre of stems and includes two states.
L168: 
L169:   * Pith glands present: In this state pith glands are present in the centre of stems. These can be detected as an aggregation or line of dark brown spots if the stem is split down its length revealing the stem centre.
L170:   * Pith glands absent: In this state pith glands are absent in the centre of stems. To confirm the absence of pith glands no aggregation or line of dark brown spots will be observed if the stem is split down its length revealing the stem centre.
L171: ## Leaf
L172: 
L173: This group of 16 characters refers to the main photosynthetic and green organ (leaf) of the plant.
L174: ### Leaf position on branches in mature crown
L175: 
L176: This character refers to the position that leaves are borne on a stem relative to other leaves and includes two states.
L177: 
L178:   * Opposite: This state refers to when two leaves are borne at the same level on the stem but on opposite sides of the stem.
L179: 
L180:   * Not opposite, i.e. alternate or disjunct: This state refers to when leaves are borne singly at different levels along a stem.
L181: ### Leaf stalk (petioles)
L182: 
L183: This character refers to the presence of a stalk that connect the expanded green and photosynthetic part of the leaf (lamina) with the stem and includes two states.
L184: 
L185:   * Present (petiolate): In this state leaves on a mature plant have a yellow, red or brown stalk (petiole) that connects the flattened green and photosynthetic part of the leaf (lamina) with the stem.
L186:   * Absent (sessile): In this state the flattened green and photosynthetic leaf (lamina) is directly attached to the stem without a yellow, red or brown stalk (petiole).
L187: ### Leaf stalk (petiole) length (cm)
L188: 
L189: This character requires the user to measure the length in centimetres of the petiole or leaf stalk that links the stem with the base of the flattened green and photosynthetic part of the leaf (lamina).
L190: ### Leaf blade shape
L191: 
L192: This character refers to the shape of the flattened, green and photosynthetic part of a leaf (blade or lamina) and includes 10 states.
L193: 
L194:   * Linear: In this state the leaf blade is very narrow, has its sides parallel for most of the leaf length and has a length:width of 12:1 or greater.
L195: 
L196:   * Lanceolate: In this state the leaf blade is lance-shaped, being widest near the base and gradually narrowing to a pointed tip (apex) and has a length:width of 5:1 or greater.
L197:   * Elliptical: In this state the leaf blade is oval or ellipse shaped, being widest near the middle of the leaf and tapering evenly to the base and to the apex.
L198: 
L199:   * Sickle-shaped or curved (falcate): In this state the leaf blade is curved like the blade of a sickle.
L200: 
L201:   * Ovate: In this state the leaf blade is widest near the base and gradually tapers to the apex, somewhat resembling the shape of an egg (but can be pointed at the apex) and has a length:width of up to 3:1.
L202:   * Orbicular: In this state the leaf blade is approximately round with a similar width as its length.
L203: 
L204:   * Oblong: In this state the leaf sides are parallel for most of its length and has a length:width of less than 12:1.
L205: 
L206:   * Obovate: In this state the leaf blade is widest towards the apex and is not notched at its apex.
L207: 
L208:   * Cordate: In this state the leaf blade is heart-shaped with the petiole (leaf stalk) attached to the leaf blade in the notch of the leaf blade.
L209:   * Obcordate: In this state the leaf blade is widest towards the apex and is notched at its apex.
L210: ### Leaf blade length (cm)
L211: 
L212: This character requires the user to measure the leaf in centimetres from apex to the point of attachment to the leaf stalk (petiole) or for cordate leaves to the base of the lobes.
L213: 
L214: ### Leaf blade width (cm)
L215: 
L216: This character requires the user to measure the leaf in centimetres at its widest point.
L217: ### Leaf blade undulation
L218: 
L219: This character refers to the flatness of the leaf and includes two states.
L220: 
L221:   * Flat: In this state the leaf is flat across its entire surface.
L222: 
L223:   * Undulate: In this state the leaf is not flat but appears wavy when viewed from the side.
L224: ### Leaf base shape
L225: 
L226: This character refers to the shape of the leaf blade at its base near to where it is attached to the leaf stalk and includes six states.
L227: 
L228:   * Oblique on petiole (more than 3 mm displacement): In this state the margins on either side of the leaf blade meet the leaf stalk(petiole)/midvein at positions more than 3 mm from each other.
L229:   * Tapering to petiole (on both sides, or slightly oblique): In this state the leaf blade gradually narrows onto the leaf stalk (petiole) and both margins of the blade meet the leaf stalk (petiole) at roughly the same point.
L230: 
L231:   * Lobed (auriculate): In this state the leaf blade has lobes that do not clasp the stem near its base.
L232: 
L233:   * Stem-clasping (amplexicaul): In this state the leaf blade has lobes that wrap around the stem.
L234:   * Rounded: In this state the leaf blade is curved so that it appears like the leaf stalk is attaching to the curve of a circle.
L235: 
L236:   * Connate (leaves paired and bases joined): In this state the leaves are opposite and are joined together sealing in the stem within leaf blade.
L237: ### Leaf margin (leaves of mature crown)
L238: 
L239: This character refers to whether the edge of the leaf blade has incisions or incursions or not and includes two states.
L240: 
L241:   * Entire: In this state the leaf blade is not incised, toothed or with any wavy incursions.
L242: 
L243:   * Scalloped or toothed (crenulate or denticulate): In this state the general outline of the leaf that can be categorised into one of the states provided in the leaf blade shape character has incisions forming teeth or has wavy incursions.
L244: ### Leaf apex shape
L245: 
L246: This character refers to the shape of the leaf blade at its apex and includes three states.
L247: 
L248:   * Leaf apex rounded: In this state the end of the leaf (apex) forms a smooth curve without any points.
L249: 
L250:   * Leaf apex notched (emarginate): In this state the end of the leaf (apex) has a notch so that the leaf ends in two lobes.
L251:   * Leaf apex pointed: In this state the end of the leaf (apex) has a point either tapering to an acute or obtuse point or with a smaller sharp abrupt point (mucro).
L252: ### Leaf upper and lower surface (leaves of mature crown)
L253: 
L254: This character refers to the uniformity of colours on both surfaces of a leaf and includes two states.
L255: 
L256:   * Same colour on both surfaces (concolorous): In this state the leaf is the same colour with a similar darkness on both the upper and lower surface. Folding a leaf over so that both surfaces can be compared side by side is the most effective way of determining whether both surfaces are the same colour and darkness.
L257:   * Upper and lower surfaces different colours (discolorous): In this state the leaf is a different colour or is distinctly darker on one of the surfaces compared to the other. Folding a leaf over so that both surfaces can be compared side by side is the most effective way of determining whether both surfaces are a different colour or darkness.
L258: ### Leaf colour (upper surface)
L259: 
L260: This character refers to the colour of the surface (the darker surface if discolorous) of the leaf blade and includes three states.
L261: 
L262:   * Green or olive green: In this state the surface of the leaf is either an olive green or a green that does not have any tints of grey or blue (e.g. bottle green, lime green).
L263: 
L264:   * Blue-green or grey-green or blue-grey: In this state the surface of the leaf has a tint of grey or blue.
L265:   * Whitish from surface wax (glaucous): In this state the leaf is covered in a whitish wax so that the colouration of the leaf tissue beneath is obscured.
L266: ### Leaf sheen (upper surface)
L267: 
L268: This character refers to whether the upper surface of the leaf is shiny and includes two states.
L269: 
L270:   * Glossy: In this state the upper leaf surface is somewhat shiny like a gloss finish.
L271: 
L272:   * Dull: In this state there is no shininess on the upper surface of the leaf. Dull is the equivalent of a matt finish.
L273: ### Leaf side-veins
L274: 
L275: This character refers to how the leaf side-veins diverge from the midrib and includes four states. Side veins are more easily observed with a light source shining from behind the leaf.
L276: 
L277:   * Side-veins acute (side-veins at an angle less than 45°to midrib): In this state the side-veins diverge at an angle of less than 45°.
L278: 
L279:   * Side-veins at an angle greater than 45° to midrib: In this state the side-veins diverge at an angle greater than 45°.
L280:   * Parallel veined (side-veins parallel to midrib): In this state the side veins diverge from the midrib near the base of the leaf and then run more or less parallel to the midrib.
L281: 
L282:   * Side-veins not seen, may be obscured by oil glands: In this state the side veins are so faint that they are not easily observed even with light shining from behind the leaf.
L283: ### Leaf vein network (reticulation density)
L284: 
L285: This character refers to how frequently the veins of a leaf converge with one another to form grids. Veins of the leaf are most easily viewed when a light is shining from behind the leaf. This character includes four states.
L286:   * Sparsely reticulate or reticulation obscure or absent: In this state the veins of a leaf may not be easily viewed when a light is shining from behind the leaf or the smaller veins are obscure so that reticulation cannot be easily seen.
L287: 
L288:   * Moderately reticulate
L289: 
L290:   * Densely reticulate
L291: 
L292:   * Very densely reticulate
L293: ### Leaf oil glands
L294: 
L295: This character refers to where oil glands are observed within a leaf and includes four states. Oil glands appear as yellow dots scattered over the leaf. Oil glands are more easily observed with a light source shining from behind the leaf.
L296: 
L297:   * Island (mostly isolated from veinlets): In this state the oil glands are enclosed within the grids made by the networks of veins and do not show obvious connections with the veins.
L298:   * Intersectional (mostly intersecting with veinlets): In this state the oil glands are clearly connected to the veins.
L299: 
L300:   * Obscure or apparently absent: In this state it is difficult to distinguish any oil glands when a light source is shining from behind the leaf.
L301: 
L302:   * Abundant, obscuring veins: In this state the oil glands are so frequent that when the leaf is viewed with light shining from behind mostly circles representing the oil glands are seen with no or few lines representing the veins.
L303: ## Clusters of buds or flowers (inflorescences)
L304: This set of five characters refer to the groups of buds/flowers. Eucalypts have either simple umbel or compound inflorescences. A simple umbel consists of a solitary umbel that comes off of a stem/branch that bears leaves. An umbel is a group of flowers or their buds (depending on their maturity) that all attach at the same point at the end of a stalk. Alternatively a compound inflorescence consists of a flowering stem that exclusively bears multiple umbels (no leaves).
L305: ### Type of bud or flower clusters (inflorescence)
L306: 
L307: This character refers to how the groups of buds are arranged relative to the leaves and includes four states.
L308:   * Clusters (compound inflorescences) formed at leafless ends of branches (terminal): In this state more than one cluster (umbel) of buds/flowers arise from a stem that forms at the end of a branch beyond the last leaf. Taxa with axillary inflorescences may give the impression that their inflorescences are terminal if they arise from the axils of fallen leaves that were once attached near the ends of branches.
L309: In such cases the original axillary position of these inflorescences can be discerned by looking for a crescent or circular scar that is left from the fallen leaf. This state occurs in the boxes (section Adnataria) and the genera Angophora and Corymbia.
L310:   * Single cluster (umbel) in leaf axil (axillary single): In this state a single cluster (umbel) of buds/flowers arise from within the angle (axil) made by the leaf and the stem bearing the leaf. Single axillary inflorescences can sometimes appear terminal if they occur in the axils of fallen leaves near the ends of branches. In such cases the original axillary position of these inflorescences can be discerned by looking for a crescent or circular scar that is left from the fallen leaf.
L311: This is by far the most frequently observed state among the Eucalypts of Victoria.
L312:   * Two clusters (umbels) in leaf axil (axillary paired): In this state two clusters (umbels) of buds/flowers arise from within the angle (axil) made by the leaf and the stem bearing the leaf. This state occurs in the tall forest trees, Eucalyptus fastigata and E. regnans.
L313:   * Compound inflorescence formed in leaf axil (axillary compound): In this state more than one cluster (umbel) of buds/flowers arise from a stem that arises from within the angle (axil) made by the leaf and the stem bearing the leaf. This state occurs in the boxes (section Adnataria) and the genera Angophora and Corymbia.
L314: ### Bud or flower cluster stalk (peduncle) cross-section
L315: 
L316: This character refers to how flattened the stalk that unites a group of buds (peduncle) is and includes two states.
L317: 
L318:   * Rounded to angular to narrowly and slightly flattened: In this state the shape made when making a cross section through the stalk leading to all the buds (peduncle) is circular or like an oval or an ellipse.
L319:   * Broadly flattened (strap-like): In this state the shape made when making a cross section through the stalk leading to all the buds (peduncle) is distinctively flattened like a strap.
L320: ### Bud or flower cluster stalk (peduncle) orientation
L321: 
L322: This character refers to how the buds/flowers are aligned relative to the branch with leaves that they were borne on and includes two states.
L323:   * Erect (in the same direction as the branch): In this state the buds/flowers continue in the same general direction as the branch. So if a branch was dropping towards the ground the tops of the buds/flowers and the stalks that lead up to them will also head towards the ground. This is by far the most common state in this character among the Victorian Eucalypt taxa.
L324:   * Pendulous or rigidly down-curved (in the opposite direction to branch): In this state the stalk that leads to where the buds/flowers in a cluster emerge from (peduncle) is bent so that the buds/flowers head in the opposite direction as the general direction as the branch. So if a branch was dropping towards the ground the tops of the buds/flowers and the stalks that lead up to them will point to the sky.
L325: ### Bud or flower cluster stalk (peduncle) length (cm.)
L326: 
L327: This character requires the user to measure the length in centimetres of the stalk that leads up to where the buds/flowers in a cluster emerge from.
L328: ### Number of buds or flowers per cluster (umbel)
L329: This character requires the user to assess the number of buds that are present in each umbel. An umbel is a group of flowers or their buds (depending on their maturity) that all attach at the same point at the end of a stalk. For taxa that have more complex compound inflorescences that have multiple umbels along a flowering stem it is the number of buds or flowers in each one of the umbels that is entered (not the total of the whole compound inflorescence).
L330: It is possible that some buds/flowers abort in development of fall off. As a result some umbels may have two or four to six buds/flowers. If no inflorescences are observed on the plant with more than three buds/flowers and an umbel of two buds/flowers is seen it is most likely that this plant typically produces three-flowered umbels.
L331: Likewise if no umbels are seen with more than seven buds/flowers and umbels with four to six buds/flowers are observed then it is most likely that this plant typically produces seven-flowered umbels. For this reason it is important to observe a few umbels to get an idea of the typical number of buds/flowers that is expected on an umbel.
L332:   * One-flowered: In this state solitary buds/flowers will be seen with no other buds visible within a couple of centimetres or no scars near where the bud attaches where another bud may have fallen off or aborted. Among the Victorian eucalypts this state is known only in Eucalyptus globulus subsp. globulus and E. verrucata.
L333:   * Three-flowered: Often two bud/flower umbels or solitary buds/flowers may be seen in eucalypts that typically have three-flowered umbels because of the loss of buds. This should be evident by a scar left where the bud was attached to the stalk near where the present buds are attached to the stalk.
L334:   * Seven-flowered: Often umbels with four to six buds/flowers may be seen in eucalypts that typically have seven-flowered umbels because of the loss of buds. This should be evident by a scar left where the bud was attached to the stalk near where the present buds are attached to the stalk.
L335: 
L336:   * More than seven to fifteen-flowered
L337: 
L338:   * More than fifteen-flowered: This state can be selected for any Eucalypts that have any umbels where more than fifteen buds/flowers are observed.
L339: ## Bud
L340: 
L341: The bud is an unopened flower which in eucalypts are typically found in clusters (umbels) with all buds attaching to the same point at the end of a stalk.
L342: ### Bud or flower stalk (pedicel)
L343: 
L344: This character refers to whether a stalk that connects the base of the bud with the stalk that leads to the point where all the neighbouring buds also attach to is present or not and includes two states.
L345: 
L346:   * Bud stalk present (pedicellate): In this state the bud has a stalk. This stalk may be very short.
L347:   * Bud stalk absent (sessile): In this state the buds do not have a stalk but instead are closely clustered together and arise directly at the top of the stalk that connects the group of buds (umbel) with a stem.

